Edit Getting Started Section (#1133)
telerik/blazor-docs: getting-started/what-you-need.md

---
title: Typical Workflow
page_title: Typical Workflow for Using the Telerik UI for Blazor Components
description: Learn about the packages and assets that you need to use the Telerik UI for Blazor components, how to get them, and how to configure your project to include the Telerik Blazor components.
slug: getting-started/what-you-need
previous_url: /installation/what-you-need
tags: get,started,installation,what,need,list
published: True
position: 3
---

> # Typical Workflow for Using the UI Components

Reviewer: Do we want to keep "Blazor UI Components" in the headline for SEO purposes?

This article describes the steps in the typical workflow for using the Telerik UI for Blazor components&mdash;getting the Telerik UI for Blazor components and configuring your project to use them.

> >tip The information in this article is also available in the form of step-by-step tutorials: [First Steps with Client-Side UI for Blazor](client-blazor) and [First Steps with Server-Side UI for Blazor](server-blazor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>tip The information in this article is also available as step-by-step tutorials for Blazor [Server]({%slug getting-started/server-side%}) and [WebAssembly]({%slug getting-started/client-side%}) apps.
```

1. [Set up the project](#configuring-the-project) to recognize the Telerik components.

## Telerik-Specific Packages

Telerik UI for Blazor is distributed through [NuGet packages]({%slug installation/nuget%}). The following table represents the NuGet packages that comprise the Telerik UI for Blazor components suite.

|NuGet Package Name|Description|
|---|---|
| `Telerik.UI.for.Blazor` | The main package that contains the code for the UI components and the only package that you must reference explicitly. Adding the package to your project will automatically add the other necessary dependencies. |
| `Telerik.DataSource` | Contains code for working with data and is needed for data binding the UI for Blazor components. |
| `Telerik.Recurrence` | Contains code for working with recurring appointments, for example, in the [Scheduler]({%slug scheduler-overview%}) UI component. |
| `Telerik.Documents.SpreadsheetStreaming` | Contains code for working with spreadsheet documents and is used for exporting. |
| `Telerik.Zip` | Contains code for working with zip archives and excel files. Excel files are actually archives and this packages is required for exporting them. |

> >note If you use a trial license, these package names have the `.Trial` suffix, for example `Telerik.UI.for.Blazor.Trial`, `Telerik.DataSource.Trial`, and `Telerik.Recurrence.Trial`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>note If you use a trial license, these package names have a `.Trial` suffix, for example `Telerik.UI.for.Blazor.Trial`, `Telerik.DataSource.Trial`, and `Telerik.Recurrence.Trial`.
```

   * It does not provide information about new versions.
   * Depending on your setup, it may require elevated privileges to run the installation wizard.
   * It provides an offline version of the [demos](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/).

* The [ZIP archive]({%slug installation/zip%}) package:

   * You can download it once from your [Telerik account](https://www.telerik.com/account/) and then use it without an Internet connection.
   * It does not provide information about new versions and does not require installation. 
   * It provides an offline version of the [demos](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/).

* The standalone `.nupkg` files:

   * They are the bare minimum that is required. 
   * To use them, follow the instructions for using the [ZIP archive]({%slug installation/zip%}), but download the `.nupkg` files instead.

## Adding the Client Assets

> For the Telerik UI for Blazor components to look and behave as expected in the browser, add the [Telerik stylesheet](#telerik-stylesheet) and the [JS Interop file](#telerik-js-interop-file) to your main index file. Depending on the Blazor hosting model and framework version, your project's main index file will differ:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Telerik UI for Blazor components require a [Telerik stylesheet](#telerik-stylesheet) and a [JS Interop file](#telerik-js-interop-file) in the app's main index file. Depending on the Blazor hosting model and framework version, this index file will differ:
```

Reviewer: Well, it is very basic knowledge that stylesheets are related to looks and JavaScript files are related to interactivity. And both of them are needed in the browser. So I believe we don't have to explain this here at the cost of longer text that is harder to read.

>    * For Client-Side Blazor apps, use the `wwwroot/index.html` index file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * For Client-Side Blazor apps, use the `wwwroot/index.html` file.
```

>    * For Server-Side Blazor apps, use one of the following index files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * For Server-Side Blazor apps, use one of the following files:
```

>       * `~/Pages/_Host.cshtml` for .NET 3.x and .NET 5

Reviewer: .NET 5 is no longer supported and we don't need to mention it.

```suggestion
      * `~/Pages/_Host.cshtml` for .NET 3.x
```

      * `~/Pages/_Layout.cshtml` for .NET 6

### Telerik Stylesheet

The stylesheet allows you to use one of the built-in [Themes]({%slug general-information/themes%}), for example, the Default theme:

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/js-interop-file.md#theme-static-asset-snippet)

### Telerik JS Interop File

The JS Interop file provides features that cannot be implemented with native Blazor.

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/js-interop-file.md#js-interop-file-snippet)

> ### Using Static Assets

Reviewer: The section order and overall algorithm is a bit odd. First, we demonstrate usage of static NuGet assets for the CSS/JS files. Then we start explaining the possible options and the reader may feel thrown back and forth between options. Can we streamline everything a bit?

Author: I rearranged the section to streamline the content.

> You can add the [Telerik JS Interop file](#telerik-js-interop-file) as a [static asset](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/razor-pages/ui-class?view=aspnetcore-3.1&tabs=visual-studio#consume-content-from-a-referenced-rcl). Static assets (the `_content` folder) are automatically included in the solution from the NuGet package during build, so all you need is to reference the asset as shown in the snippet below. The `_content` folder is expanded by the framework into the local NuGet cache, and the project copies it from there.

Reviewer: "reference the asset as shown in the snippet below"

The snippet doesn't show referencing an asset. It shows how to enable the app to use static NuGet assets. This seems to be a legacy issue.

```suggestion
You can add the [Telerik JS Interop file](#telerik-js-interop-file) as a [static asset](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/razor-pages/ui-class?view=aspnetcore-6.0&tabs=visual-studio#consume-content-from-a-referenced-rcl). Static assets (the `_content` folder) are automatically included in the solution from the NuGet package during build, so all you need is to enable static  assets as shown in the snippet below. The `_content` folder is expanded by the framework into the local NuGet cache, and the project copies it from there.
```

> To enable the use of static assets in your project, add the `app.UseStaticFiles();` line to the startup file of your **Server** project:

Reviewer: This line is present by default in the default Visual Studio project template. The developer just has to make sure it's still there.

 * `Startup.cs` for .NET 3.x and .NET 5
 * `Program.cs` for .NET 6

**C#**
@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/js-interop-file.md#enable-static-assets-snippet)

### Using CDN

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#cdn)

> >Telerik recommends using the [static assets](#static-assets) approach instead of a CDN. This approach relies on the static assets feature from the framework and takes the correct file from the package so you don't have to remember to update the CDN path when upgrading to a newer version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>Telerik recommends using [static assets](#static-assets) instead of a CDN. This approach relies on the static assets feature from the framework and takes the correct file from the package so you don't have to remember to update the CDN path when [upgrading to a newer version]({%slug upgrade-tutorial%}).
```

---

> title: Typical Workflow

Reviewer 2: I personally do not find this suggestive of what the content will be. Do we have feedback prompting this change?

Author: This change is based on my observations. The main issue is that the title "What You Need" isn't grammatically consistent with the rest of the titles in the parent section. Furthermore, the title isn't informative enough because it doesn't define a specific purpose&mdash;installing, configuring, using, or something else.
"Typical Workflow", on the other hand, has a similar grammatical structure and implies a complete process or a sequence of steps needed to complete a task&mdash;exactly what we have in the article.

To enable the use of static assets in your project, add the `app.UseStaticFiles();` line to the startup file of your **Server** project (by default, this line is already present):

 * `Startup.cs` for .NET 3.x and .NET 5
 * `Program.cs` for .NET 6

**C#**
@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/js-interop-file.md#enable-static-assets-snippet)

#### Telerik Stylesheet

The stylesheet allows you to use one of the built-in [Themes]({%slug general-information/themes%}), for example, the Default theme:

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/js-interop-file.md#theme-static-asset-snippet)

#### Telerik JS Interop File

The JS Interop file provides features that cannot be implemented with native Blazor.

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/js-interop-file.md#js-interop-file-snippet)

> ### Using CDN

Reviewer 2: A few years ago the guidance was to avoid -ing forms, has this changed?

Author: In titles and headings, we recommend using -ing forms. We avoid them in the free text because they can be ambiguous.

Reviewer 2: indeed, that is new, from about a year ago. Thanks
